About the program

The Program is divided into three seperate programs.

1. docMaker.cpp - Arbitrary sized random documents generator implemented as a MPI program.

The generated executable needs to run on every node and it will automagically create all the documents as per specified in the source.
To create documents it randomly picks words from a specified wordlist until the specified wordcount is reached.

To change the number of documents created and the size of each document, modify docwlen and docn variables inside docMaker.cpp appropriately.

The convention for naming documents is "doc-i" where i goes from 0 to n-1 where n is document count.

2. indexer.cpp - Local index generator for every node.

The indexer reads each document word by word and stores the count, document name along with the freuqency of each word in the form of a hashtable.
Finally, the hash table is written persistently in a file named index.

The format of each index is - Lots of Lines where each line contains information about a single word
word freq0 nodeid0 docid0 freq1 nodeid1 docid1 ... and so on
The frequencies are stored in descending order.

So, in summary using this index we can instantly locate where exactly most occurence of it exists, second most occurence and so on.   

3. indexMerger.cpp - Global index generator by merging all local indices implemented as an MPI Program.

It works by merging indices step by step until all are merged and final index is stored at Process 0.

An illustration is shown below:

Consider 4 machines

0 1 2 3

In first step index0 and index1 are merged and at the same time index2 and index3 are also merged.
This is done by 1 sending its index to 0 and 3 sending to 2.
So we are left with the following nodes:

0   2

Now in the second step 2 sends it index to 0 and 0 merges its own index with 2's index.

0

Finally, we are left with 0 and this index stores the global index.

The format is the same as that of local index.

--------------------------------------------------

For Cluster Execution (Utilities are provided inside utilities folder)

1. Set up passwordless ssh
2. Populate all the hosts in the hosts_file and host_file_slots.
3. Use provided Makefile to generate the executable.
4. Run copy_program.sh to copy the executable to every host.
5. Execute mpirun -np 8 -hostfile host_file_slots a.out 
